The Evolution of Enterprise Blockchain - Customer Panel at Oracle CloudWorld
September 14, 2023 | 5 minute read


Next week at Oracle CloudWorld in Las Vegas innovative leaders representing companies of all sizes and industries will share how they use Oracle technologies to solve their most complex challenges—including advancing sustainability, improving efficiency and customer engagement, providing affordable healthcare to patients, and delivering impactful AI to enterprises. 

I am honored to host a panel with four of them.  PAN4150: Evolving Enterprise Blockchain: from Traceability to NFTs and Web3 [Wednesday, Sep 20 | 8:30 AM - 9:15 AM PDT] includes four leaders applying Oracle Blockchain technology in diverse spheres ranging from sustainable sourcing of critical minerals for Electric Vehicles batteries (and their re-cycling), immersive customer and fan engagements, manufacturing of drilling equipment for oil & gas exploration, and rewards programs for engaging music lovers.

I’ve asked them to introduce themselves and their innovative solutions in our blog.

Douglas Johnson‑Poensgen, CEO, Circulor
Circulor, a pioneering technology company at the forefront of sustainable supply chain management, is revolutionizing the way businesses track and verify their raw materials' origins and environmental impact. By leveraging blockchain technology, Circulor empowers organizations to achieve transparency, traceability, and sustainability within their supply chains.  This need is being driving, especially in the auto industry, by regulatory requirements for digital product passports for batteries; other industries are following fast. Through its innovative platform, Circulor enables manufacturers to monitor every step of their supply chain, from the extraction of raw materials to the final product, ensuring compliance with environmental regulations and responsible sourcing practices.  

Enterprises have increasingly adopted blockchain for its ability to provide secure, tamper-resistant, and transparent data management. In the context of supply chain management, like Circulor's focus, blockchain has proven invaluable for establishing provenance and tracking the movement of goods from source to consumer. Beyond supply chains, blockchain has also found applications in areas such as identity verification, contract management, and financial transactions, disrupting traditional business processes and enhancing security and efficiency. As blockchain continues to evolve, its integration into the enterprise sector promises to bring about even more transformative changes, from enhancing trust and reducing fraud to streamlining operations and enabling new business models.  

Ashe Menon, Vice President of Operations, National Oilwell Varco
All the current attention around AI necessitates a conversation around Blockchain which is its natural counterweight. While AI is Top – Down centralized control whereas Blockchain is more about Bottom – Up decentralized cooperation. The work we are doing at Project Auredia is about using Blockchain as the foundation to connect machines and people across the Supply Chain in Manufacturing (oil & gas drilling equipment) and Farming. Auredia builds an ecosystem of machines, people, companies – connected to each other on the chain through stored information – both, for proof and transparency.

We are gathering real time data from machines on the factory floor, mobile data from the people running machines, ERPs, maintenance data, quality data, on-time delivery data, and any other macro information relevant to the operation – and connect them to each other using AI/ML to remove waste and increase profit.

While everyone does this, the big difference enabled by the blockchain is that this ‘trusted’ information is no longer siloed – it is in single source of truth distributed ledgers that can be shared across the network of collaborating companies, which allows other member companies to use this information to interact with others in a supplier or customer relationship - based on truth and integrity. And the quality of the data generated is tokenized based on the quality of the information. So your data has real value associated with it now. While the market may not be ready for this kind of network or monetization technique today, the kids in high school and college have a completely different view of privacy and intellectual property and we should be building systems that cater to their needs. The Oracle Blockchain Platform is the foundation of this ecosystem in manufacturing as well as agriculture to help farmers.

Mira Kaul, Co-Founder and Chief Product Officer, LivePlex 
Liveplex technology stack aims to simplify and accelerate the adoption of Web 3.0 technologies in the enterprise. By providing a ready-to-use technology stack that provisions a library of APIs for Identity, Smart contracting, Tokenization, Payments, on-chain Commerce, IoT Data management, on-chain and off-chain security for data in motion, it can support multiple blockchain ledgers and integrate into any business process to increase productivity, eliminate inadequacies, and create trust. It can also support data provenance for Large Language Models, curation, and training of Vision AI.

Liveplex API stack makes Web3 accessible to help Telcos improve customer churn by using NFT rewards marketplaces, Retailers deploy Loyalty and Rewards programs across their consumer base, Banks and Insurers create virtual Metaverse branches for their customers with integrated AI virtual humans. It can also be customized to support immersive Learning Ecosystems, eliminate supply chain inefficiencies for grocery chains by integrating sourcing data or track ESG goals, create blockchain based embedded finance business models for auto dealerships or other retail marketplaces and track royalty payments for media and entertainment clients.

Oracle is a natural partner for Liveplex not only because of its legacy of being a widely recognized Enterprise technology provider but also because of its unique permissioned blockchain strategy, which is a huge win for our customers who want to explore the benefits of Web 3.0 without having to expose their corporate data or invest in new infrastructure. At our panel session come and learn how enterprise customers use blockchain and Web3 to transform their operations.

Eddie Satterly, Chief Technology Officer, OneOf 
OneOf was an early leader in the creator ecosystem for digital assets and has worked with independent creators and record labels to create new and interesting digital and phygital collectibles. Eddie Satterly is a long time emerging technology CTO that has been working with blockchain solutions for a decade as a way to ensure data privacy. Since joining OneOf as CTO, Eddie has led creation of an enterprise engagement, commerce/re-commerce, loyalty, and item provenance platform. The goal is to serve as an easy onramp to the world of Web3 combining the openness of public chains (ex. Tezos & Polygon) and confidentiality of permissioned chains (Hyperledger Fabric) for the right use cases, most recently adopting Oracle Blockchain Platform managed service for Hyperledger Fabric to enable enterprise use cases with this technology.

The OneOf team has also built upon Hyperledger projects to create a Decentralized Identity capability with a quick an easy familiar sign-up process. We believe that moving people in an easy fashion to the world of Web3 will give the user more control and the brand a frictionless way to have direct engagement with their customers or fans. Users are in control and brands are empowered to offer the user a unique experience for their engagement. OneOf is also creating a circularity platform for goods that will empower brands to create blockchain-verified products that make information about the makeup, manufacturing process and sourcing of materials easily available to consumers. We hope to follow up on the work we have done in creating a green digital asset platform and make a circularity platform for goods a reality for the world.

These four leading solutions show the diversity and the range of blockchain innovation for the enterprise across B2B and B2C interactions. Come to Oracle CloudWorld next week and join our panel session to learn from these leaders’ experience in driving these innovations, overcoming blockchain adoption challenges, and get a glimpse of what’s ahead in the world of blockchain and Web3. Interested in more blockchain sessions?  See the earlier blog post listing the full blockchain agenda at CloudWorld.




